# myFirstPythonProject
--ABOUT--
Hello, my name is David and I am the creator of this game. I created this game in around 55 hours - (20 hours figuring out the functionality and creating an in-code version of the game and 35 hours making the 2D version with the visuals and utilising Pygame).

I made this game to learn python from scratch. I had previous experience with coding in different languages such as C and Java but time and time again I kept seeing Python involved in various projects and realised that it would be a great language to have under my repertoire. There are many ways to learn different languages and libraries but for me, trial by error in practicality always suits best.

I was also curious to test my skills in making a 2D style game as this was a area of programming that I had never explored before.

The project is far from perfect I am sure, but I learned a lot when creating this but mainly had fun.

I created the code (obviously) and used After Effects for creating the cutscenes and animations however, unfortunately, though I may brag about my coding skills, I am no artist. All characters and backgrounds you see were generated by ChatGPT. I used the Pygame library to create the surfaces and displays and moviepy to display my videos that I created.

This repository included the the .py files the game was made from, the After Effects file used to make the cutscenes and all the media used within the game. Feel free to have a gander!


--WELCOME--

The basis of the game:

	- You are a visitor in an abandoned hotel.
	- Oh no! There is a monster chasing you!!!!
	- The game starts with you in the elevator
	- There are 5 floors in the hotel
	- You must grab 3 keys to get out of the hotel

In each floor:

	You could either get:
		A key!!! this brings you back to the elevator and one step closer to escaping. The monster does not move.
		Nothing... this allows you to hide and let the monster move before you are back in the elevator.
		The monster!!! if you manage to beat him quickly you get to escape to the elevator. if not then it is game over.
			-note: if you do escape then the monster moves too.
How To Play:
	Press F5 to run the game.
	
	Hover over the buttons to see what floor it correlates to. Click on it when it is glowing to head to the floor displayed.
	
	Use the TAB key in the elevator to view your stats such as how many lives you have, how many keys you collected, what floor you are currently on. Your current objective is also displayed.
	
	Use the arrow keys to dodge the spikes thrown at you by the monster. Run into the bars of soap to use it to attack the monster.
